# [Signal 1: Jyrek](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/09/signal-1-jyrek.html)

Can you hear me? Are you listening? I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales,
and this is my signal.

I am broadcasting to you for one reason. To illuminate you. Ignorance serves
no one in a dark age. I am a candle in the night.

If you can hear me, take note. This broadcast is for and about the people of
Jyrek, a fortress city in the kingdom of Thaemor. Consider yourself warned.
There are some in Thaemor who don't want you to know what I know. They may try
to do you harm to keep their secrets. But worthwhile knowledge is not without
its risks. You must get this information to those in Jyrek who can act on it.
If you're in Jyrek, listen closely.

*Music*

Living in Jyrek means living in one of the most defensible locations in the
Steadfast. It's more than a city. It's a fortress. And you probably go about
your day assuming you're totally safe, living in the shadow of the Eyren. But
what if danger is already lurking within the walls of the city? What if it's
stalking your streets or lurking in your alleys? It's become...unsafe to walk
in Jyrek at night.

I'm certain you've heard of the disappearances. A few local vagrants; a trio of
gaurdsmen. A pair of children. All, vanished.

What your authorities aren't telling you, however, is that they're dead. Their
bodies *have* been found, and quietly disposed of. But why? Because something
has murdered them.

Secretly, away from prying eyes, they have been drained completely of cerebral
fluid through a small hole in the back of their head. Your protectors don't
want you to know because they don't want to cause a panic. They're afraid of
what might happen if word got out that someone--or something--has killed,
again, and again, and again. And almost certainly will, again.

Who, or what, is committing these murders? An extraterrestrial that hungers on
brain matter? A serial killer, with an odd calling card? Maybe someone needs
that cerebral fluid for some secret purpose. Whatever is happening, there is a
danger. Lock your doors tight, and travel in groups when the sun sets.

*Music*

Above your fortress city lies an impregnable shell. The Eyren. Once, it was
meant as a refuge for a royal family, but it became their tomb when disease
spred through the structure. For decades, the great egg has floated over the
heart of your city, civic and national law prohibiting anyone from entering for
fear of what terrible plague may still be cultivating within. But when you lock
all the doors and tell no one to open them, someone is sure to start wondering
what lies on the other side.

Especially someone who is obsessed with doors. Professor Lurik Sian is someone.
Someone who specializes in forbidden doorways at a very secret university that
exists very far from this world, and is very selective about who it teaches.

Sian has begun a search for some brave souls who will join him on a very
illegal expedition into the Eyren. He wants to find the truth of what lies
within.

The danger within the Eyren is almost certainly real, but the potential riches
are equally so. Once, it was home to royalty, after all. To this day, tales
tell that the egg is a vast storehouse of riches, finery, and numenera. But can
Sian find a secret way in? Can he be trusted? And perhaps most importantly,
what might be waiting for him inside?

*Music*

There are other rumors in Jyrek.

There have been sightings of flickering lights at night in the wooded hills
near the city. During the day the area is empty save for the strange, swirling
patterns in the drit. At night, strange glowing creatures are observed hovering
through the woods, but no one dares get closer to find out what they are.

For two months now, every week, a green sigil has been appearing on one of the
city's guard towers. The local guardsmen have been clearing it off, but like
clockwork, it comes back. No one knows what it means.

An inventor in the city claims to have created a device that can shrink someone
to microscopic size, and is looking for a volunteer to test it. So far, there
have been no takers.

*Music*

One last thing. Somewhere in Jyrek is a lattimer called Yalin Dru. Find them.
Tell them Maylock is coming. It is important that they know.

Time grows short, and I must end this broadcast. Jyrek is a strong city with
strong people; you will persevere. To everyone else who can hear me, keep
listening. I'll be back with more tales from the Steadfast and the Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
