# [Signal 5: Kaparin](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/10/signal-5-kaparin.html)

...testing signal strength.

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tell tales, and this is the signal.

I bring you information. Do you accept it, or do you shut your ears and continue
blindly in ignorance? It makes no difference to me.

If you can hear me, take note; this broadcast is for and about the people of
Kaparin, on the coast of Ancuan. A city of seagoing explorers should be a hotbed
of adventure, but, perhaps surprisingly, it's also a hotbed of intrigue.

You must make sure this information reaches Kaparin. If you're in Kaparin,
listen closely.

*...music...strange voice...*

Your city is renowned for its fishing, its trade--and of course, its true
masters, the Redfleets. Virtually everyone in the city who isn't a member of the
organization benefits from them or preys upon them. But even among those of you
who prey upon the Redfleets, it takes a very daring, or very powerful, person to
actively, openly, act in opposition to them in their very home.

The Treylock is a very powerful and daring individual. The extraterrestrial has
become a power player in Ancuan thanks to a combination of illicit trade and
illegal goods, numenera, and slaves. It's known to have friends in both the
Order of Truth and the court of King Ansour-Mantir. And the Treylock clearly does
not fear the Redfleets. The alien recently purchased a coveted notebook at an
auction in Glavis, one the Redfleets had been working hard to obtain for
themselves. For you see, the book in question once belonged to Mergine Kar, and
it's believed it contains his original notes on the creation of the submergine.

The Redfleets are outraged. They claim the notebook rightfully belongs to them
in the first place, and the Treylock has made it clear he has no intention of
selling to them, and, in fact, has begun gathering researchers to his enclave on
the coast near the city.

The Redfleets are unwilling to directly oppose the Treylock, due to the possible
political repurcussions within the realm. Something the alien knows all to well.
But unofficially, they've begun looking to find a way to steal back the
notebook, and secure Margie Kar's legacy.

What they don't know, is that the Treylock has already sent out feelers for
ambitious and adventurous sorts who might be willing to test the new undersea
device.

*...music...strange voice...*

Even as the Redfleets plan a heist, so too is one being planned against them.
Kaparin's RFM is a grand museum to the glory of the Redfleets, a testament to
their desire to collect and preserve their history of discovery. But the museum
doesn't only feature their discoveries. It also features several trophies of
adventures undertaken by some of their most celebrated members.

One such trophy is an odd-looking suit of armor. It's dark; imposing. Made for a
humanoid a full head taller than an average human, with an exposed hole where
its heart should be.

It's not a suit of armor at all. It's the mortal remains of a Dark Fathom.

If you don't know about these living engines of destruction, count yourself
lucky. Suffice to say to meet one is to meet almost certain doom. They are
blessedly rare. Some time ago a particularly lucky and adventursome Redfleets
captain named Guyland slew the creature with the help of powerful numenera. Its
remains are a testament to the fact that these creatures are not invincible, and
are considered a treasure by the entire organization. And those remains are
coveted by at least one other organization.

The Convergence.

An agent of the Convergence named Progol has begun looking for assistance for
his masters higher up the chain. They need someone...expendible and deniable to
break into the RFM to obtain the dark fathom's remains. What could a powerful
group like the convergence do with the remains of a living weapon of mass
destruction? Research into how to control these doomsday warriors? Finding a way
to harness their awesome power to create a new weapon? The secret to creating
more of them? Perhaps a clue as to where they come from.

Progol is offering a hefty reward to the...unscrupulous who would be willing to
engage in the daring heist. On the other hand, the Redfleets would likely
generously reward anyone who foiled the Convergence's plans. Either way, someone
would find themselves with a powerful organization as an ally...and an equally
powerful organization as an enemy.

*...music...strange voice...*

There are other rumors in Kaparin. A shady woman on the docks has been selling
hits from a device that strobes light. Those who see the light have their bad
memories erased for 24 hours. It's highly addictive.

Recently, a young man named Voll fell into the sky in the middle of the day. He
returned a week later having aged ten years, and speaking a language no one
understands.

There's an urban legend of an alley on the north side where on certain nights of
the year, if you look up, you'll see a completely alien sky. But you may not
find your way home.

*...music...strange voice...*

I must go. Quickly.

To the people of Kaparin, I wish you and yours well. To anyone else who can hear
me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales from the Steadfast and the
Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

Vaux; end signal.
