# [Signal 7: Shallamas](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/10/signal-7-shallamas.html)

Can you hear me?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

Beware. There are those who would prefer you continue to live in ignorance.
They are the ones for whom the truth can do the most damage.

If you can hear me, take note: this broadcast is for, and about, the people of
Shallamas, Navarene's City of Echoes. Much of our past is shrouded in mystery,
but in some corners of the world, the past has a way of repeating itself.

You must make sure this information reaches Shallamas. If you're in Shallamas,
listen closely.

*...music...*

For many generations, the Provani family have been the uncontested powerhouses
of trade in your fair city. This isn't to say they haven't had hard times,
just that they seem to have a family trait for shrewd investment and gainful
intrigue. A trait that has allowed them to remain firmly in control of your
city.

Allista Provani has certainly inherited the trait. She is the niece of the
family patriarch, Argust Provani, and she's looking to better her position in
his eyes. What better way then opening up a new area of trade. Recently, a
mysterious traveler approached the Provani with proof of a small, isolated
village in the northern Cloudcrystal Skyfields, one built upon access to a
rare, desert insect. A rare desert insect which has the appearance of jewelry,
a deadly sting, and develops a strong bond to its handler. Such a luxury would
fetch a fine price among the nobles in Navarene, but Argust doesn't believe
it's worth the risk to investigate the village.

Allista disagrees. She's decided to fund her own trade expedition into the
northern Cloudcrystal Skyfields to locate this village, and negotiate a trade
deal. If she succeeds, it could prove a lucrative boost for her family, and
her profile within it. If she fails, she'll be ruined...assuming she even
survives the trip. Allista has put out word that she needs able men and women
to join her on the expedition. The journey there and back would be perilous,
especially with the Amber Pope's crusades beginning to destabilize the region.
But who knows what wonders such an expedition might encounter, and what riches
might be brought home?

*...music...*

For years, a secret war has been fought in your alleys, back rooms and shadows.
It's an open secret that the Shadowlings work diligently to deal with thieves
in your midst, mainly by preventing them from being able to organize. It's been
decades since a proper organized crime syndicate has had a foothold in
Shallamas, either because the Shadowlings have infiltrated and gutted them, or
because the majority of thieves are now simply to paranoid of Shadowling agents
to trust one another.

And yet, in the last six months, a criminal network has begun to rally in your
city. Thieves have been more organized. Heists have grown bigger, and bolder.
The Shadowlings are insistent that they're containing the damage done by this
new guild of thieves, but the truth is, they're facing unprecedented setbacks
in dealing with them, and several of their agents have been exposed, lured into
traps, or murdered.

What they don't yet know is that the leader of this new syndicate is one of
their own. A rogue Shadowling. Not a former member of the group; rather, a
current leader in the organization. One who's seen a far more lucrative future
in controlling a criminal empire.

This is an almost unparalleled time of opportunity for the unscrupulous in
Shallamas. An enterprising thief could ally themselves with this burgeoning
criminal group and earn a place of authority. In the meantime the Shadowlings
may need to turn to outside help to deal with this new syndicate; an unknown
element, to help deal with a threat from within.

*...music...*

There are other rumors in Shallamas. Word is a lucrative seskii fighting ring
is operating in the sub-basement of a local pub. In addition to betting on the
animal fights, seskii crystals are harvested from the losers and sold on the
black market.

Something large and bright fell from the sky about three weeks ago, apparently
landing in the Dark Hills. A group of three numenera hunters went to retrieve
it--none have returned.

Most echoes are random. But the echo of the murder of a young woman appears
every day at dusk; and it's not always exactly the same.

*...music...*

Every now and then people send information into the datasphere, in the hopes
that I will be able to find it. And I'm very good at finding these messages.
This one is from Jaran Ashby, a travel-worn glaive who wanders the land. It's
a message for the people of Fasten, not far from Shallamas. There is a patch of
land, writes Jaran, east of your village, off the road to Charmonde, where the
sweetest fruit grows and the greenest grass thrives even in the coldest and
most brutal times.

Do not step foot here. Especially do not eat its food. Those who do, whether
human, abhuman or creature, become suddenly docile as an aneen. But if anyone
should approach they suddenly become mindlessly bloodthirsty, and will attack
with little regard for self-preservation.

Jaran believes they are protecting something. Something is controlling them.
Something...from underneath.

*...music...*

It's time to end this communication. Then again, perhaps you'll hear it again,
echoing in the streets and alleys of Shallamas.

To everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
of the Steadfast and the Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
