# [Signal 8: Hidden Naresh](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/10/signal-8-hidden-naresh.html)

Are you there?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

There are many secrets in the Ninth World waiting to be uncovered. But there
are just as many secrets that should remain lost.

If you can hear me, take note: this broadcast is for you. Yes, you. In Hidden
Naresh. I know you can hear me.

To anyone else who can hear me, do not go to Hidden Naresh. Not willingly, if
you can help it. But to you in Hidden Naresh, listen closely.

*...music...*

In case you think I'm somehow talking to someone else, let's start by talking
about you. As you sit in the dark of your hovel, clutching the blue crystal
through which you can hear my voice. Once, you were someone. Someone from a
faraway place. You barely remember that person, a person who knew joy, and
light; who had a full belly and a clean face. Who had shoes, and hope, and
a future, and a name.

You don't remember how you came to be in Hidden Naresh. You know someone or
something had taken your things before you awoke here--your weapons, your
clothes, everything of value, gone. Shivering in the dark, afraid for your
life, you managed to find a place to hide. At first you thought it was a
temporary haven. But after the weeks began to pass, it slowly became a home.

Worse, you've since begun to feel as though no one has lived here before you.
As though it has always been waiting for you to come and be here. Your hands
are quick and you've been able to beg and steal to survive. Some scraps of
clothing; a knife; a few shins; even food, or at least what passes for food in
this place. But always, a way out has eluded you, hasn't it?

You don't know how to get out of this city; it seems as though there's no way
out. You have since given up any thought of escape. Your last hope is that
you'll hold onto your humanity before you die here.

But yesterday, you found a dead man. At least, you think it was a man. He
hadn't been murdered like most of the bodies you find. You thought perhaps he'd
overdosed on bad mycos. But he held in his hands a blue crystal, with a brass
rod through it. You took it, assuming you could sell it for a few more shins.
You took it home, and now you stare at it, listening to my voice, talking to
you through it.

You can barely believe this is happening. Have you finally gone mad? No. You
have found salvation. Assuming you can survive the next few hours.

*...music...*

First, you must escape. From them. Don't look up; they're up there right now.
They've been following you since yesterday, when you found the dead man. They
killed him. And now, they mean to harm you. They're close now, but they don't
know that you know that they're there. And as long as they don't, you remain
safe. But don't look; or they'll know that you know.

Leave this place. Quickly, but don't run; they might take that as a sign that
you've noticed them and then all would be lost. It's dark now but don't worry
about the light, your eyes will adjust. Go down the block, and turn into the
alley. It's darker here, but that's ok--you don't want to see *him*, because
he is loathsome. But he's been expecting you, and he has mycos for you. Take
it, and pay him your last shin. You've been saving it for food, but this is
more important.

Do not eat the mycos not yet. Turn around and leave the alley. Again, hurry,
but don't run, and don't look up; they're still there. Down the next block and
around the corner, avoid the two squabbling...things...in the gutter. They were
human, once, and they envy that you still are. They will attack you if you do
not cross the street, but they won't follow you if you do.

At the end of the road, there is a red door. Open it, and go inside. A circle
has been prepared here. Sit in it. Close your eyes and eat the mycos.

The sounds will be unbearable.

That is them. They can no longer perceive you, and this has angered them. Do
not open your eyes, and do not leave the circle. It may take all of your
willpower. You may weep and scream. You must wait until the sounds abate.

It could take an hour or more. But when all you hear is your heartbeat, you're
safe.

You can look up now.

*...music...*

Now that they're gone, it will be safe to get your present. It's been left just
for you, and it will help you escape this city at last.

Leave the room with the red door. The squabbling things have gone now, and the
street seems lit by a strange, purple glow. This is a side effect of the
mycos. It will fade in time. Hurry back down the street and take the first
right. It should lead into a narrow alley. Very narrow. You'll have to turn
sideways to squeeze through. It's long, uncomfortably so, but don't think on
it, just keep going. Eventually, you'll emerge in a small court between several
buildings. There's an archway at the end of the plaza; go there.

There are creatures here in this place. They may reach out to touch you as you
pass; it will be horrible, but let them. Do not shy away or they may be
offended. And if you offend them, they may harm you.

When you reach the archway, enter. You will see a steep stairwell that goes
down. Watch your step; they are worn with age. The staircase is long and you
may need to stop and rest at intervals, but don't stop for long, or the mycos
may wear off, and you don't want to navigate these stairs in total darkness.

At the bottom, there is a room shaped like a funnel. At the bottom of the room,
is a hole. Slide down and go through the hole, and you will find your present
in what lies below.

If you can figure out how it will get out of the hole and out of the room,
you'll understand how it can help you leave Hidden Naresh.

But figure it out soon, for this is one of The Sorcan's places, and if he finds
you here, you will never escape.

*...music...*

You are not welcome in Hidden Naresh *get*. If you *out* find yourself there, get
out of Hidden Naresh as *run* soon as you can *it's coming*.

To everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
from the Steadfast and the Beyond.

I'm Vaux; end signal *end signal*.
