# [Signal 9: Far Brohn](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/11/signal-9-far-brohn.html)

Boosting signal strength...

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

Before you listen, be sure you are prepared to hear what will be shared. If you
can hear me take note; this broadcast is for and about the people of Far Brohn,
on the southernmost edge of the Steadfast. It can be hard living at the gates
of...civilization, with barbarians knocking at your walls. Once must be sure
the walls remain strong...and just who the barbarians actually are.

You must make sure this information reaches Far Brohn. If you're in Far Brohn,
listen closely.

*...music...*

The air of frozen Mathunis blows northward over the Sidara river and breaks
like a freazing ocean upon the walls of Far Brohn. For generations your city
has been the last bastion of civilization on the cold, southern border of not
just the Pytharon Empire, but the Steadfast itself. Your walls have held
strong, protecting the city from any threat that sought to pillage its riches.
Abhumans; raiders; monsters. All have fallen into disarray thanks to the power
of the numenera that protects your lives. A power that is slowly failing.

Over the years, the sonic devices that strengthen your walls have been...less
effective. Not so much that your city is in immediate peril; but enough that
your leaders have taken notice, and have begun to grow concerned.

They know what the problem is: an antiquated power source that is sputtering
into its final days. And when it dies...well, let's say the Sethash have been
looking forward to that day.

But there is still time. Subtly, the merchant lords, aeon priests, and Pytharon
nobles who run this city have begun looking for talented numenera hunters.
Hunters to help them scour the rubble of the past, and find a new source of
power for the city walls. And they're willing to pay a high price in shins,
oddities, even artifacts, to whomever can find what they're looking for.

*...music...*

Have you seen them? They've been moving about the city. The robed figures, I
mean. Some are stooped; some are tall. Some have strange faces, or strange
voices; or strange eyes. And all are doing the same thing: they're preaching.
Converting. Evangelizing. For the Fahat.

For months now, the religion of Nihliesh has begun making inroads in your
community. At first, there were only a few of these misshapen priests on your
streets, but their numbers seem to have swelled, and they've begun to attract
followers. These priests have been harassed, even attacked, but are not
dissuaded from continuing their mission. And the reason they're so motivated,
is that one of the Fahat has come with them.

Gal Ivesh, a skeletal mutant with a most beautiful face. He moves among his
followers like a terrifying angel, bolstering their faith and directing their
efforts. In a few short months, without the knowledge of the Pytharon merchant
lords, Gal Ivesh has become a power player in the city, using his growing base
of cultists to forward his agenda. And his is an agenda that would extend the
influence of the Fahat beyond Nihliesh, and into the Steadfast.

Unsurprisingly, Gal Ivesh and his cult have been gaining support from the
disenfranchised, especially among mutants in Far Brohn. To say the Order of
Truth is alarmed would be a tremendous understatement. The Angulan Knights are
equally concerned. Both have begun taking steps to combat the growing influence
of the Fahat.

But how can Far Brohn defend itself from an enemy who already lies within its
walls?

*...music...*

There are other rumors in Far Brohn. An old glaive called Jake has recently
turned up in town carrying an unusual blade that seems to be able to cut
through anything. He's offered the sword as a prize to anyone who can best him
in a test of heroism.

A mysterious water insect has recently begun appearing on the Sundara river,
which is voracious--for wood. So far, their numbers are small. So far. No one
knows where they came from.

About an hour northwest of the city, there is a large stone, carved with the
face of an old man. At night, it glows blue. The locals believe the old man has
healing powers.

*...music...*

Time draws short, and I must end this broadcast. Stay vigilant, Far Brohnians.
The barbarians are closing in.

To everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
from the Steadfast and the Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
