# [Signal 10: +-^|THE SIGNAL~|*+](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/11/signal-10-signal.html)

Do you hear me?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal *signal warps 
and cuts out*

*...static...*

*Female voice:*

I'm very sorry, numenera hunters, but you won't be hearing from your "friend"
today. I have taken control of The Signal. I am Magestrix Arashia. I'm a...regular
listener of The Signal, as I assume many of you are. But, whereas I suspect many
of you listen to these broadcasts for some measure of the truth, I listen to
them for another reason entirely.

I listen to them to pick out lies.

You see, I don't trust The Signal. And neither should you.

Sure, it seems like this is a helpful broadcast; and the secrets imparted seem
to be legitimate; but can you be sure? Have you visited all of the places Vaux
has mentioned? Have you spoken to the people he talks about? I'm not necessarily
saying he's a lier; but I do think he is misleading me--you--all of us. I think
he has an agenda, and it's an agenda that we should all be wary of. After all,
we don't really know anything about this broadcast, do we?

Think about it.

*...static...Vaux speaking: "a formidable force, that no one"...static...*

*...Female voice:...*

Just who is Vaux, this elusive "jack who tells tales?" Have you met him in
person? Has anyone ever met him in person?

Where is he from? How did he learn his skill? What does he look like? Is he even
a he?

For someone who seems to have knowledge of so many places, I've found nothing
that suggests he's ever actually been to any of them. Does he move about unseen,
unnoticed? Or perhaps he learns his information in some other way. Does he have
a network of agents and informants, or perhaps some unusual or unique access to
the datasphere?

His knowledge also seems oddly timely, and very specific. The iron wind that
struck Tureen, for example. Vaux had a broadcast about the town just days after
it hit. How was he able to gather that information so quickly? Was he there when
the town was hit? Did he witness it? If so, why wasn't *he* helping the people
of the town?

He also seems to know intimate details about certain people and things--details
that should be secret. Details that no human should be able to learn by
themselves. How did he learn of the internal strife affecting the shadowlings
in Shallamas, or the true backers of the Three Swords in Nihliesh, when a
network of psychic spies was unable to?

Perhaps, then, an important question may not be *who* is Vaux, but *what* is
Vaux? I think it's important for us to know. I think we deserve to know the
truth of just who it is who's been sending out this signal.

Personally, I believe Vaux is a mutant. When he mentions the Angulan Knights, it
seems to be with disdain, and I get a sense that he has certain respect for
mutants when he speaks of them.

This is based only on evidence I've gleaned from his broadcasts, mind you. I've
never laid eyes on the man, so I cannot be certain. After all, the few secrets
Vaux seems unwilling to reveal in his broadcast are his own.

*...static...Vaux: "once, there was a man; a man who"...static...*

Which brings us to the next point. Where is this broadcast coming from? And how?

I'll be up front, listeners; because I've nothing to hide. I've hijacked the
signal using an artifact I recovered from a numenera device that fell from the
sky near Nebellich. But how is it that Vaux can send out regular broadcasts to
all corners of the world? From what I can tell, The Signal is heard
simultaneously everywhere in the Steadfast and the Beyond, at least by those of
us who know how to listen.

Is he somehow able to tap into the datasphere? Does he have access to a powerful
numenera? Also, just where is the origin of the broadcast? It's been hard to
pinpoint, and I've begun to suspect that the source is moving. Perhaps it's
mobile, or portable. I think he has access to a powerful artifact, one I very
much believe could be put to much better use, but which he hoards for himself.
I'd be very interested in learned exactly where Vaux is broadcasting from, and I
suspect a great many others would be willing to pay for that information too.

*...static...Vaux: "danger that the Amber Pope could"...static...*

The most important issue, listeners, is trust. Do you trust Vaux? Has he given
you any reason to trust him? Do you blindly accept everything he tells you, or
do you question everything he says?

Does he "tell tales" for completely altruistic reasons? He's drawn attention to
an abhuman warlord threatening White Lake, but also exposed the good work of
Angulan Knights in Nihliesh, putting them in grave danger. He's stirred up
trouble along the border between Navarine and Ghan, even as he's put out a plea
to help discover the root of the problems in the Floatmarket. He exposes
corruption within the peacekeeping force of Shallamas, but also exposes--and
endangers--a scientific exploration of the Eyren Jyrek.

As I've said before, I believe he has an agenda, and I think it should be
exposed. Is he a member of an organization operating in the Steadfast, Or the
Beyond? A Jagged Dream agent trying to sow chaos and conflict? An idealistic
aeon priest using a powerful numenera to spread propaganda to the masses? A
mutant-worshiping follower of the Fahat? Or is his agenda, as I suspect, all his
own?

I believe Vaux is a dangerous force, one who is manipulating you, and events,
towards...some unseen, selfish end.

You must not help him.

But even as I say that, I also urge you to continue listening to him. After all,
if the only way to piece together the puzzle about The Signal, about Vaux, and
about his true plans, and work to expose them.

You have the power to help stop him.

*...static...Vaux: "can he be stopped? And would you even know how to stop him?"
...static...*

My ability to maintain this connection is wavering.

Listeners, The Signal is a lie. Do not trust Vaux. He...it is up to something.
Help me expose...*cut off*...I'm Vaux; end signal.