# [Signal 26: Acknyt](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2015/05/signal-26-acknyt.html)

Care for a tropical getaway?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

On a wall in Kaparin's RFM you might see a map of a fabled island chain, far to
the west, over the vast ocean that opens beyond the Sea of Secrets. Legends
told by the Redfleets hold that this far-off tropical paradise and its people
hold great secrets, and ancient treasures.

The map is not completely accurate. But the legends, numenera hunters? Those
are true.

Among the larger islands of the Rayskel Cays is Omaris, and upon its shores lay
the ruins of Acknyt. You must make sure this information reaches Acknyt. If
you're in Acknyt, listen closely.

*...static...*

Acknyt is a community built around the support network of the Racknage, a group
of scholars who put together the puzzle of history bit by bit, and who see the
pursuit of knowledge as not just a calling, but a veritable religious
obligation.

But they aren't the only ones in the Rayskel Cays who value knowledge. One man
in particular would love to have the Racknage working for him, turning their
vast knowledge towards supporting his quest to unite the islands under one
vision. One rule. Trau Yad, the God of the Gold Canyon.

Yad has never approached the Racknage in person, mind; at least, not yet. But
his proxies have a presence on Omaris, and they have been putting pressure on
Acknyt to accept Yad's rule. The local bonebreaker outpost, Sageport, was set
up within sight of the ruins, and the Racknage tolerates them because they help
facilitate trade to, and from, the island. But so far, they've rebuffed any
attempt of the bonebreakers to establish further control on the island, and the
leader of the Racknage, Gyliam Liamsel, has been very clear that her order
will not bow to any sovereign, though they are happy to trade with Yad.

This, however, is not good enough for the would-be ruler of the Rayskel Cays,
and he's not a man who is accustomed to not getting his way. Yad has been
contemplating a trip to Acknyt to meet with Liamsel personally--a rare honor
for the Racknage, as Yad rarely leaves his home island, and if they speak face
to face, the legendarily persuasive Trau Yad may even convince the aged scholar
to submit to him.

But she's not so easily swayed. She's as zealous in her devotion to her order
and its beliefs as she is stubborn. The local bonebreakers are led by an
echryni named Undrim, and he's been dealing with the Racknage for years now. He
knows they are unlikely to willingly come around to serving his master; as
such, he's begun to engineer a plan. One that would force the Racknage to seek
outside aid, which would allow Yad and his collective to swoop in and..."help".
Putting them in a position to bring the Racknage under their thumb.

Undrim has other echryni Bone Breakers working steadily, underwater, along the
coast; burrowing into the rock. The idea is to create a massive landslide into
the ocean, ideally bringing a portion of Acknyd down into the deeps. A terrible
natural disaster that would be hard to pin on the bonebreakers themselves, and
one that would force outside assistance. But if proof of this endeavor could be
brought to light, the Racknage would likely not take it well, and their polite
tolerance of Sageport would also likely come to an end--along with any hope of
ever bringing them into Yad's service.

*...music...*

Threats to the scholarly order don't just muster outside the walls of Acknyd.
The Racknage also face dangers internally. And it is these internal issues which
may be even more explosive than what the Bone Breakers have in store. The main
source of the Racknage's knowledge is the Tomb of the World, which beams
mysterious fragments into their minds every morning. But this is not without
risk. Once in a while, during the transfer, one of the scholars will be
afflicted by the mimicking disease.

This rare madness makes the affected person begin believe they are not
themselves, but rather, they begin to believe they are a person who was
standing near them when they were afflicted. These confused souls are taken to
the Ephemeral Ward, where they can be cared for as some of the scholars seek a
way to heal them. But at least one of them is not so certain she wants to be
healed, because she doesn't believe the caregivers' explanations that she is
confused. No; she knows that these are lies. She knows who she is, and she
knows the Gyliam Liamsel that walks the halls of Aknyd, leading the Racknage,
is the real impostor.

More troublingly, she has convinced many of those in the Ephemeral Ward that
they too are the victims of a dastardly scheme. That they aren't afflicted with
a mimicking disease, but a sinister mind-swapping conspiracy is at work. They
intend to break out of their apparent imprisonment in the Ephemeral Ward, and
take back their rightful places, casting down these conspirators who have been
wresting away control of the Racknage. But of course, they are insane...right?

And, who is more fit to lead? The aging, 80-year-old Gyliam? Or the young
woman who has adopted her persona? Both are equally ruthless, equally cunning,
and totally devoted to the Racknage. Is it time the elder Liamsel stepped aside
for a younger, hungrier version of herself? Perhaps. But she would not give up
the reins so easily.

Those who continue to live and work outside the ephemeral ward are oblivious to
these plans at work amongst their mental duplicates, who are smart enough to
keep their plans for escape from their caretakers. A strange sort of power
struggle is developing in Acknyt, numenera hunters; is it time to pick a side?
Or perhaps a cure to the mimicking disease could be discovered, in time.

*...music...*

There are other rumors in Acknyt. An explorer recently passed through, claiming
to have found a door in a nearby kivick(?), which led to what he called an
underground foundry of great size. He promised to return in a week with proof,
but he did not. Was he lying? Or has some terrible fate fallen upon him?

For several years the Racknage has been trying to entice the glaili strippers
of Omaris to join their order and bring their secrets with them. To date, the
strippers have kept their processes to themselves, and only offered trade to
the scholars, but the Racknage covets their knowledge, and may be willing to
pay handsomely for it.

One mile inland from Acknyt, there is a perfectly spherical stone sitting on a
small hill. When light falls upon it, a man-shaped shadow appears. This shadow
has a secret, and it will share it with those who seek it out--but the secret
may lead you on a perilous journey into the depths of the sea.

*...music...*

The time has come. To the Racknage of Acknyt, pursue your knowledge. To
everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
from the Steadfast, the Beyond, and farther still.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
