# [Signal 27: Nabir Enthru](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2015/06/signal-27-nabir-enthru.html)

Is war coming?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

There is a terrible threat to the Steadfast mustering in the north. Not north
of the Cloudcrystal Skyfields, as the Amber Pope has claimed for years; but to
the north of the Clock of Kala, in a land red with fire and blood.

Vralk, the red kingdom, is used to taking what it wants, and in the name of
their Red Gods, they want the riches and the resources of the Steadfast. And in
the city of Nabir Enthru, foundries churn out weapons day and night, in
preparation for the day when the armies begin their march.

You must make sure this information reaches Nabir Enthru. If you're in Nabir
Enthru, listen closely.

*...music...*

The reeve of Nabir Enthru is a rarity in Vralk. A living mutant. This is partly
because Lubrous has shown his worth to a society where worthiness is valued and
rewarded; and partly because he knows many things. The kind of things which
allow him to control others.

For Lubrous' mutations are not merely physical, granting him strength and
toughness; he also has the power to gaze into someone's innermost, deepest
thoughts, and pry loose a secret. He can only do this upon meeting someone for
the first time; and only ever once, learning a single secret about the subject.

Perhaps it's a childhood fear; or an old shame. A terrible crime; or even some
kernel of forbidden knowledge.

But there is one secret Lubrous does not know. One which he covets. The secret
of Hollac the bloodspeaker.

Hollac is a Red Priest, and a paragon of that faith. He is the ranking priest
in Nabir Enthru, and his name alone carries with it weight, respect, and fear
among the populace.

Lubrous has met Hollac only once in his entire tenure as Reeve, and it was
during that meeting that the mutant pried loose a secret from the bloodspeaker.
He learned that Hollac knows something so hideous, so...unspeakable, that the
knowing of it is itself a terrible secret.

What could that knowledge be? What thought could be so anathema that its mere
presence in your mind is something that must be kept hidden from all outsiders?

At first, Lubrous was amused by the secret-about-a-secret that he'd pried from
Hollac. But as the years have past, his curiosity has grown. What could the
secret be? What treasure is locked away in Hollac's gray matter? And how could
the Reeve ever learn what it is?

Lubrous has become obsessed with the secret of Hollac the bloodspeaker.
Potentially, it's the greatest secret in the world, and it's tantalizingly just
outside of his reach. No scheme to date has ever been able to turn up what
Hollac knows, how he came to know it, or how it might be coerced from him. If a
numenera hunter were able to even get a solid clue about the secret, let alone
somehow come into possession of it, they could name their price to the mutant.

Just be sure to meet Lubrous *before* you undertake your investigation, lest he
pry the secret from your mind himself.

*...music...*

Feeling sporting, numenera hunters? For in Vralk, there are many competitions
and games which have never been seen or heard in the Steadfast. So close to so
many fortresses, and home to so many tough laborers, Nabir Enthru is a hotbed
of competition.

There is great prestige to be won in these events, and many outsiders and
locals both have become celebrated and renowned for becoming a champion--or
master--of the Vralkan's deadly brand of sport.

I do not use the word "deadly" lightly. Vralkans see life as a crucible, and
their competitions reflect that, rewarding endurance and strength, especially
in the face of hardship. Only those bold enough to risk injury or death dare
step into their arenas.

Among the most popular competitions in Nabir Enthru is the Clambering. Three
teams of three race against one another, climbing a sixty-foot structure in the
arena to obtain a crimson flag flying at its top. All team members are armed
only with a sledgehammer, and are only allowed to strike at each others' limbs,
though deadly falls are not uncommon.

Another is the Flaying, a possibly lethal battle of toughness and will. Two
contestants take turns cutting strips of their own flesh from their bodies. The
winner is the one who can withstand the pain and blood loss the longest without
conceding, collapsing, or dying.

Hotball has earned a growing following. The sport is said to be ancient, passed
down over generations from a previous age. Two teams of six separated by a high
steel mesh try to score points against each other by landing a flaming ball
into the other team's field. You cannot hold the ball or risk terrible burns,
and keeping it aloft and knocking it back to the opposing team requires the
willpower to resist your instinct to avoid the flames.

Then there is Scrimmage. Two teams of eleven face off against one another on a
narrow field, both wearing only lightly padded armor. Each team takes turns
being "the onslaught," trying to break the line of scrimmage by forcing their
way through the other team, scoring a point for each player who makes it past.
No weapons are allowed, but fists, feet, elbows, and knees can be just as
effective at stopping an onslaught as any polearm or blade. A team can win by
either forcing a forfeit through injury, or earning 50 points.

Each of Vralk's vallation fortresses boasts a scrimmage team who regularly
compete against each other; the Combrech team are the reigning champions.

Do you dare compete, numenera hunters? Vralkans have no coin for reward, but
there are prizes to be won.

*...music...*

There are other rumors in Nabir Enthru.

Have you heard tell of the Megmanaut? It is a being that is said to wander the
Fire Fangs in a heat resistant, helmeted suit. It can be seen observing strange
happenings and incidents from a distance, never engaging, and disappearing as
quickly as it appears. No one has ever been able to communicate with it, or
find out what it's doing. Perhaps there's more than one.

There is an old quarry near Nabir Enthru, which has been abandoned for
centuries. Within lies a red crystal which is as hard as steel, and can be
sharpened to an unbelievable level. Weapons made of it have become a rarity in
Vralk, but a new one could be forged if the crystal was harvested. The quarry
was abandoned for a reason, however, and the locals don't speak of why.

There are a few trees that grow in Vralk, but one is near... *...static...*

*...another voice...*the nibovian is among you. It has earned your trust. You
don't recognize it for what it is, but you must destroy it before it's too
late.*...static...*

*...music...*

Signal strength is wavering.

The Vralkans are a very real threat to the Steadfast, numenera hunters. If
anyone in authority could even be convinced they exist.

Keep listening. I'll be back with more tales from the Steadfast, the Beyond,
and farther still.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
