# [Signal 28: Wyrcross](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2015/07/signal-28-wyrcross.html)

Back to the Steadfast.

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

The kingdoms of the Steadfast make up a collection of some of the most stable
regimes in the known world, but every now and then, one of their regimes
changes. And in Draolis, the Council of Spheres arose from just such a change.

Away from their oversight, the booming town of Wyrcross not only serves as a
major link between Draolis and its neighbor, Iscobal; it's also a hotbed of
seditionist activity.

You must make sure this information reaches Wyrcross. If you're in Wyrcross,
listen closely.

*...music...*

It was only a few generations back when Draolis was ruled by the descendants of
the woman who carved the nation out of the Steadfast. Dreya, the legendary
"Tiger Queen." The Draolian line was strong, and passed matrilineally down the
centuries from queen to queen, ruling under the banner of the Tiger. Until the
last queen died. Under unusual circumstances.

A young woman and only child, she left no clear line of succession, and this
allowed the Council of Spheres to enter into the vacuum of control, supported
by the Order of Truth. Within just a few years, the trappings of the old regime
were largely swept away.

The wealthy plutocrats who now run the nation have done so with a steady hand.
Draolis remains economically and militarily powerful, and most of the people of
the realm enjoy no better or worse a life then they did under the reign of the
tiger queens. But that doesn't mean they've been forgotten, or that they don't
still have loyal supporters.

One such group operates safely outside the capital, in the border town of
Wyrcross. They are the Tigers, and they see the Council, and the Order of Truth,
as usurpers to the rightful rule of the kingdom. They are not unique in this
belief, but among all the political agitators in the nation, the Tigers have one
thing that makes them particularly dangerous to the regime: they have an heir to
the throne. For although the female line of Queen Dreya has died out, the male
line still exists, and the Tigers seek to put the crown on a young man named
Wills.

Wills, for  his part, is a humble man who works as a guard of the Crossing, the
great light bridge over the Wyr river which links Iscobal and Draolis. He is
pleasant, down-to-earth, charming, smart, with a good moral compass and a strong
sense of compassion. He harbors no ambition other than to one day meet a good
woman and do well by her. Indeed, he could be an ideal ruler...or an ideal
puppet.

He is blissfully unaware of his royal lineage, which comes to him through his
great-great-grandfather, who was the youngest brother to then-queen Trisane, and
left the palace to take up the life of a numenera hunter.

Wills is also blissfully unaware of the web of intrigue that has been encircling
him. The Tigers operate out of Wyrcross to keep close to Wills, and act subtly
to protect him from harm. Meantime, they seed agents throughout the realm to
spy, agitate, forge alliances, and work to undermine the rule of the Council of
Spheres. An ambitious numenera hunter could easily join their ranks, and perhaps
become an important player in Draeolis were the regime to shift. Then again, the
Council of Spheres is known to pay generously those who sell out political
opponents. And they could pay very well indeed for help ending the line of the
Tiger Queens, once and for all.

*...music...*

One cannot talk about any community in Draeolis without inevitably talking about
the true power in the kingdom: the Order of Truth. Oh, certainly they claim to
be neutral in politics of the realm, but they maintain an opulent palace in the
heart of the capital; have their own standing army; and one of the positions on
the Council of Spheres is always held by an aeon priest, representing the Amber
Pope's interests. That and more than half the plutocrats on the Council are
under their thumb.

But in Wyrcross, the influence of the Order of Truth is not so complete.
Certainly there are several aeon priests working in the local clave, but in
recent months, they've become less and less involved in the affairs of the town,
and more and more secretive. Indeed, in the past two months, of the twelve local
aeon priests, only three have left the clave for more than an hour at a time,
and days will often pass between these excursions. The doors to the clave have
also been closed to all visitors, even other aeon priests, who are politely
rebuffed. 

What could be going on within the clave that demands such secrecy? Certainly it
must be officially sanctioned. As close they are to the heart of the Order's
power, it seems impossible they could have gone rogue without it being noticed 
or investigated.

I cannot say for certain, but I can provide some tantalizing clues. A week
before the doors to the clave closed, a large object was delivered in the dead
of night: transported on a hovering platform, and covered in a large red tarp.
Was something moving beneath, as some witnesses claim?

Two days later, a heavily armed glaive was hired by the aeon priests. He was
taken into the clave...and has not come back out.

Among the supplies the aeon priests have been collecting in their rare
excursions are parts. Not unusual in itself for the Order of Truth, but some of
these parts could only have been used to build and maintain a refrigeration
device. A sizable one.

The mayor of Wyrcross, Sharon Prost, has been growing concerned about the clave.
She has quietly offered a reward to anyone who can put her fears to rest by
finding out just what's going on in there.

*...music...*

There are other rumors in Wyrcross. Someone...or something...in Iscobal has
recently been stealing from merchants coming north to the crossing, and there
have been several robberies in recent weeks. Everything from valuables to trade
goods has been taken; the odd thing is, the merchants have only noticed the
thefts upon arrival in Wyrcross.

Just outside of town there is a silver spire, 16 feet tall, that is growing out
of a small hill. It has gained about an inch every year since it was first
noticed, and has resisted any attempt to remove it. It emits a low hum, and is
said to supercharge anything powered by electricity which is touched to it.

One of the permanent merchants in the town is the Weavess. She is a visitant who
secretes a soft, tough fiber from her abdomen, and weaves 	it into clothing on
commission. Her work is both in demand and rather expensive, but well worth the
cost to those who can afford it.

*...music...*

This broadcast ends, but the truth never does.

To the people of Wyrcross, beware the tigers in your midst, lest they bring the
might of the Council of Spheres down upon you.

To everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
from the Steadfast, the Beyond, and farther still.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.