# [Signal 28.5: Travelers](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2015/08/signal-285-travelers.html)

Are you listening?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

If you can hear me, know that it is not by chance; this broadcast is directed at
you: you and your traveling companions. You may be looking at each other in
surprise or confusion, but rest assured, no other living soul can hear me at
this moment.

If you can hear my voice, take heed: you are in terrible, immediate danger, so
listen closely.

*...music...*

Do you hear it? The strange baying in the night under the light of the moon?
Have you noticed it's been drawing closer on each subsequent night? If you
haven't been paying attention to it, you'll certainly notice it tonight. And
it's very close now, isn't it. Whatever could it be? And why is it getting
closer? 

She's been stalking you, for several days. A young woman, skilled at moving
through the wilderness and following trails. She's pursuing you, because
knowingly or not, you took something that belongs to her, and she desperately
needs it back. She needs it because it keeps the Other away. The thing that
takes hold of her in the night, when the light of the moon touches her.
It takes hold of her mind and rips its way through her flesh, bursting forth
hungry for sentient meat. She has no control over it, except for that which you
took. That is the only thing that will suppress the Other. The only thing that
acts as her salvation.

She doesn't necessarily mean to harm you. Her hope is that she can reach you by
day, deal with you, get back what she desperately needs. If necessary, she is
prepared to fight; and she's a skilled glaive, no pushover. The problem is, the
moon is already out, and the Other is awake, an innocent woman trapped within.
And it's near, numenera hunters. Oh so near.

And it can smell you.

*...music...*

Assuming you survive the night, and I have faith that you will, there is
something else that might interest you. In fact, it's the real reason I'm
broadcasting to you. Not far from you, to the south, perhaps an hour's hike, an
unusual bit of the numenera has fallen from the sky.

In a small crater lies a small sphere, small enough to hold in one hand. It
glows blue when touched and radiates some warmth. It's not fragile; indeed, it
cannot be damaged by any tool or ability your group possesses.

There are parties, numenera hunters, interested parties who want to possess this
oddity. It may seem useless to you, but the impact of it falling into the wrong
hands could be devastating and far-reaching. Take it. Hide it. Hurl it back into
the cosmos. Find some trustworthy ally you can be sure will never misuse it--or
perhaps better yet, find some power, or some means of destroying it. This orb is
an egg full of wondrous, terrible potential, and if you get there fast enough,
that potential will be in your hands.

Assuming, of course, that you survive the night.

*...music...*

This broadcast must end. Act fast, and act decisively, numenera hunters.

And don't forget, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales from the
Steadfast, the Beyond, and farther still.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.