# [Signal 29: Storui](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2015/09/signal-29-storui.html)

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

Thousands of miles to the north and east of the Steadfast, across continental
shelves long ago fused into a single land mass, lie the Lands of the Dawn. A
journey of months or years by foot; or moments, by less conventional means.

On the coast of the Dawn Kingdom of Corao, on the cliffs overlooking the Bay
of Peyclin is the pit city of Storui. A seedy port town as any in the
Steadfast, and just as packed with opportunity.

You must make sure this information reaches Storui. If you're in Storui, listen
closely.

*...music...*

Our first tale begins not in Storui, but in Majehm, the queendom of the Uraeyl.
The Uraeyl are non-human people who live in the southern expanse of the Lands
of the Dawn. They are a civilized, social, and surprisingly artistic people.
Unfortunately, they see humans as little more than canny and delicious animals
to be domesticated, bred, and either put to work or butchered for food. They
look upon their neighbors--nations of humans--as a distasteful farce, a
facsimile of their own advancement by violent, wild animals who neither
understand nor appreciate civilization.

In their own lands, they maintain herds of humans, long since degenerated to a
primal state, but are always on the lookout for ways to replenish their stock
and keep the human gene pools from stagnating. Raiding the neighboring
territories has grown dangerous, so they've often turned to...unconventional
means. And while no self-respecting Uraeyl would ever stoop to dealing with
animals like humans, they're more than happy to deal with other visitants and
outsiders who move among humanity. And there are many unscrupulous beings
who've seen the opportunity at their fingertips.

One "enterprising" varjellen named Tsilai has seen that opportunity. The
varjellen has worked with greedy and ruthless humans and non-humans alike to
create a trade network based out of Storui. On the surface, the Tsilai Trading
Company seems to deal in exotic spices and goods, but the real wealth comes
from one particular cargo: human cargo.

Disappearances in Corao are not uncommon. Lone travelers vanishing from the
roads; people going out for a night of carousing...and never being heard from
again. Children being snatched for wandering too far from safety. Most of these
kidnappings end with the victims stripped of belongings, bound, tagged, and
stored in a secret hold in one of the purple painted boats of the Tsilai
Trading Company.

If the boat has no humans working on deck, you can be assured they make a
secret stop to trade with the Uraeyl.

It's an open secret that *someone* in Storui is trading humans to the Uraeyl;
indeed, it's not unheard of to find an item, weapon or bit of clothing for
resale in the undermarkets which is recognizable as belonging to someone who's
vanished. However, no one has been able to prove definitively that it's Tsilai.
The varjellen is wealthy, powerful, with many influential friends, and is very
careful to protect itself.

But if solid, undeniable proof could be found, Tsilai could potentially be
exposed; and trading humans to the Urehl is the kind of crime very few would
stick their necks out to protect the varjellen from. Remember the purple boats,
numenera hunters.

And beware traveling alone.

*...music...*

On Storui's surface is the ducal manor, where the Duchess Dustrum and her
family deal in city affairs and maintain the rule of the Queen in Lilies. The
duchess herself is usually occupied with her tinkering and her machines; but
many proxies attend to her business on her behalf. Or rather, on behalf of
the real mind in control of Storui.

Roaming in the manor grounds, one might come across the duchess' ward, an
outgoing and inquisitive 8-year-old boy named Alleichai. If Alleichai seems
wise beyond his young years, that's because behind those eyes lies the
transient mind of an ancient telepath. A telepath who has the ambition, and
power, to enslave thousands.

For the most part, Alleichai currently lurks around the ducal court, having
enslaved the minds of both the duchess, and most of her ministers. For now, he
protects himself, consolidates his power over the city, and bides his time. For
the machine the duchess has been tinkering with is a powerful telepathic
amplifier, one which will allow Alleichai to touch the minds of everyone for
hundreds of miles in every direction.

Alleichai's mind control is far from complete, however. He can directly control
only a handful of people at once. But anyone affected by his power is left with
suggestions on actions he wants undertaken, and an unshakable loyalty to him.

A few people have wills potent or alien enough that his mind control has no
effect on them. Likewise, his power seems to be ineffective against other
telepaths of sufficient skill. Already laws have begun to appear in Storui that
curb the rights of telepaths so Alleichai can flush out potential enemies. It
hasn't yet reached the level of full persecution, but give it time.

Alleichai fears death. He long ago fled his original body and has no intention
of this one being his last. However, it takes time for him to shift his
consciousness fully into a suitable host. If someone could bring themselves to
attack an 8-year-old child, the ancient telepathic parasite would be unable to
flee.

This is not to say he is defenseless, or that he doesn't have many, many,
willing defenders. The situation is not totally hopeless, though. There are a
handful of former court appointees who have mysteriously lost their positions
in recent years. A captain of the ducal guard. A minister of records. And a
senior adviser. All were ousted for resisting Alleichai's control.

They suspect the truth. But they are unable to act without help. Preferably,
help from another potent telepath. And they would likely be willing to
handsomely reward anyone who could free the duchess from Alleichai's control,
and stop the telepath's plans.

*...music...*

There are other rumors in Storui. Lately, the octopi living in the Bay of
Peyclin have been making forays into the subterranean harbors of the city. They
have been spotted by keen-eyed observers, but as yet, they have not done
anything hostile or suspicious. Are these scouts? Is something afoot under the
bay?

In one of the old pipes in the lower part of Storui's pit is a woman named
Everess. She breeds a symbiotic, extra-terrestrial bacteria, which can enhance
the strength or reflexes of those who become willing hosts--assuming their body
doesn't reject them. She's willing to trade for injections, but her price is
steep.

People in Storui don't approach the Shambler when it walks the winding street
at night, ducking into doorways to give it clearance to pass. No one knows
where the Shambler lurks during the day. If you dare to approach, the Shambler
will give you a dark omen of the future.

*...music...*

My journey continues. To the people of Storui, watch your back, and don't
travel alone.

To everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
from the Steadfast, the Beyond, and farther still

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
